# Database_Extraction_Tool


### Outline of Program
The end goal of the project is to create a cohesive and intuitive GUI which can be used to effectively sort through two large databases for nuclear structural data and atomic binding data. This GUI will plot the data obtained from the two databases and allow for the user to study properties of excited nuclei more systematically.

This program has 2 functions: 
1. Produce plots of nuclear states requested by the user. 
2. Return an array of relevant atomic mass data.



### How to run this program:
1. Run the `THIS WORKS.py` script. 
2. Enter appropriate values and click the corresponding submit button. (example: Zn, Alow 60, Ahigh 67, J 0+,3/2-,2-, E 5000).
3. Requested plots (and the corresponding individual text files containing data exported from the ensdf.xxx files) will appear in the `Outputs/gnuPlot` directory.
4. The requested atomic mass data will be displayed in the text box within the GUI. 



### How this program operates:
There are several scripts which interact with eachother to produce plots and outputs. When the user runs `THIS WORKS.py`, two commands are executed- the first runs the `datExp` function from the `isotopeDataExportingDat.py` script with inputs (True, True). The `datExp` function takes the user's inputs and feeds them into the `data` function from the dataClass.py script. The `data` function contains an algorithm which finds the data requested by the user (extracts the relevant information from the appropriate ensdf.xxx data file) and saves it into text files for each isotope in the range requested by the user. 
The second command executed runs the `pltFileExp` function from the `isotopeDataExportingDat.py` script. The `pltFileExp` function reads the text files generated by the first command and produces a single gnuPlot using data from all the text files generated.



### What happens when I click 'Submit'?
When the user clicks the submit button on the left in the GUI this does two things. First, user inputs are stored as variables which can be fed into the other scripts. The second action taken is the GUI window closes. When the GUI closes the `THIS WORK.py` commands are executed. 



### Improvements/Problems:
- Click the submit button on the left and the GUI closes
The GUI should  not close when the submits button are clicked. The user should be able to click 'Submit' multiple times with different inputs and the program should produce multiple plots.

- Any errors or messages that appear in the shell should appear in textbox. The user should never have to interact with the shell (i.e. 'Press Enter to Continue' is not good.), everything should be self contained within the GUI frame.

- Plots do NOT appear inside GUI. In addition (or if the user requests) to being stored in the Outputs/gnuPlot directory the plots should also appear in the GUI frame.

- How to handle Theory and Sym inputs

- Formatting: Text box, input fields, labels, etc. could be refined. 


## Version Tracking:

Version Upload 05.19.2017 @ TIME -M.S. Martin:
    Attempting to fix GUI closing issue
    This code loops but does not allow for multiple user inputs
    Plots do not appear in GUI yet

Version Upload 05.18.2017 @ 0900MT -M.S. Martin:
    Removed exterior zero data files so plot will only display useful
    information and interior NO_DATA sets
    Automatically delete all zero data files include plots

Version Upload 05.17.2017 @ 2000MT -W. McDonald:
    Combined `README.md` and Peter's `READ_ME.txt.txt` into `README.md`.
    Reformatted the README into Markdown and edited contents for clarity.

Version Upload 05.17.2017 @ 1430MT -M.S. Martin:
    Updated README.md file to include project description.
    Created a way for the program to interpret blank entries into the left side
    of the GUI. Now some blank entries will kill the program while some will
    set to default values

Version Upload 05.17.2017 @ 1150MT -M.S. Martin:
    This code fixes the 2+ states for 65Zn issue.
    GUI still has to close for plot to appear.

Version Upload 05.17.2017 @ 1050MT -M.S. Martin:
    This code plots properly with no duplicates with the following exceptions.
    Plots 2+ state for 65Zn - problem not found yet.
    GUI still has to close for plot to appear.
